EduToon is a web tool designed to turn research papers into informational comics using generative AI. Users can submit a research paper to the website, which then leverages generative AI models to create a series of images and dialogue summarizing the research content. The goal of the project is to make academic research more accessible to an unfamiliar and uninformed audience. The project should serve as an introductory tool to prompt further examination of the primary source material.

Current State

• React, Express, and Node website
	
• OpenAI API gpt-4o usage for research summary, prompt and dialogue generation
	
• myMidjourney API usage for character and background image generation

How It Works

• The user provides a text input that can either be a section or the full body of a research paper. This text is expected to be a string and can be of considerable length.
	
• After processing, a comic image (a series of images and dialogues) arranged in a pre-set panel format is returned with the option to download as a PNG image file.

Summarization

• The input text is divided into chunks, each of which is then passed through OpenAI's gpt-4o model to generate a summary outlining the key takeaways of the paper. This process occurs recursively until the final summary character count is below a preset amount to ensure model limit errors are avoided.

Script and Prompt Generation

• The summary is processed by gpt-4o to create a character description, a dialogue script that explains the key takeaways of the summary. This script is divided into a list with sections of 2 dialogue lines each (with the final section being 1 dialogue line if there are an odd number of lines). Then, for each of these sections a prompt for the background highlighting the major nouns is generated to be used for image creation.

Character Image Generation

• The character description is processed by the myMidjourney API to generate a character image. myMidjourney generates a 2x2 image composed of 4 different generations off the same prompt. For simplicity, all myMidjourney images are cropped to the top left quadrant image. Using rembg, the background of the character image is removed to produce a transparent PNG.

Background Image Generation

• The list of background prompts is processed by the myMidjourney API to generate a series of background images.

Front-End Assembly

• The dialogue script, transparent character image, and list of background images is passed to the front-end for assembly. Using P5.js, the character image is drawn on top of each background image (which has been cropped to be the top left quadrant image generated by the myMidjourney API). Each image is arranged and the corresponding dialogue script is added. Using html2canvas, the user can download the final comic as a PNG image.

How to Run

include your OpenAI and myMidjourney API keys in your .env file

cd to directory

        npm install
 
 to run

        npm run dev
 
